Topic: When should cloud-based automation be used/How much toil is worth it to reduce toil?

This semester has given me a keen interest in reducing toil and adding automation whenever possible. Maybe that's the smart thing to do or maybe I'm just exhausted and don't want to do any more of it myself. That's pretty much the only problem I ran into for this report, just being exhausted kinda puts a damper on curiosity, but here's what I have. (Maybe this is less a curiosity report and more lessons I've learned along the way. Is it a report on the consequences of curiosity?)

During this class one of my projects at work involves managing inventory of various devices and keeping this up to date across multiple management systems. This wasn't something assigned to me, but a project I chose to work on because our process bothered me with how manual and fallible it was, while being a prime candidate for automation. One of the primary sources of toil is checking and updating the status of the remote management of our MacBooks for rent, which are retired to us by the rest of campus. As we get these MacBooks, they are inventoried in a ServiceNow database, but it is incredibly rare for the sending department to update BYU's Apple School Management tools to show that Surplus is now the controlling department. This causes issues for imaging rental devices and is generally a pain to deal with. To solve this problem, our manager needs a list of serial numbers from the received devices, and needs to manually update the status of each device. At the beginning of the semester, we were also manually reading off and adding these serial numbers to an Excel spreadsheet in our office server on the local network. We moved over to using an Excel sheet in Box partway through the semester, and that's where I started looking into solving this problem. 

Using an AWS S3 bucket with some simple scripting using the SDK would likely be a fairly clean and simple solution to code, but our office does not have, nor otherwise need an AWS account, and getting that approved for a single use such as this is not likely to happen. I wouldn't be able to just use my own AWS account and resources since this tool would likely outlive my stay in this office, whatever solution I come to needs to be transferrable and understandable by someone without my knowledge or experience.

Since we are already using Box, I have begun looking at using the Box dev tools to build a program to query our ServiceNow database for recently received devices that match a set of criteria. However, as an additional complication, our office is retiring ServiceNow at the end of the year, and moving to Workday for everything, and there is no certainty about anything, including how our inventory will be tracked or managed. Thus at this point I am left at a juncture, do I build a whole program and learn a new infrastructure just for the whole thing to potentially be scrapped in two months? What are the odds I will simply be able to swap my calls to ServiceNow's APIs to using Workday's APIs? Will this entire inventory system even exist? 

At this point, this project is on pause, due to other blocking factors, which is another example of how real problems can get in the way of reducing toil. We've been swamped with too many other things to be able to afford the time to automate or improve anything. We've hit the point where we're too busy swimming to build a boat. I've continued researching options, but how can we come up with a decent solution when much of the future requirements are unknown? Something like that would probably have been a better curiosity report, but it's a bit too late for that. 

We've determined that much of what has been built will likely able to stay, which is nive. It's been a lot of application of what I learned in CS240 and 340, how to build code to be extensible and testable. It's become less a question of automation and more an issue of creating robust systems that can be easily adapted to changing circumstances and support systems. I've learned a lot firsthand about how and why to use existing design patterns and structures. So once again, I got less out of this from trying to learn about and dive into new systems and solutions, and more from reinforcing and implementing what I already knew. 

Sorry if this report isn't what it is supposed to be, but a mental break and changing medications while taking 340 does a real number on your curiosity. So yeah, this is a summary of what I learned along the way of trying to show initiative and implement what we've been going over. 
